>> Richard Feldman: This optimization that
we've done here, if you want to call it,
that relies on number one,
knowing extensions fit in four bytes.
If it were really common to see file
extensions that were more than four bytes,
this would probably be a terrible idea.
Assuming it's not a terrible idea already,
also knowing memory is just ones and
zeros, and that we can
reinterpret them however we want.
Also, using a language that
supports doing this sort of thing.
And finally,
just basically having this sort of
will to actually implemented this way,
even though it and maybe it's a safer less
complicated way you could do it, okay?
So I just want to talk very briefly
about this function called sendfile.
So you might have notice that what
we've been doing here is essentially we
say okay, we get a request in,
we read the requests, we parse it.
We get out the file.
We want to do we say okay, cool,
we've got our socket file descriptor.
We're gonna put that on the shelf for
a second.
We are just read the request in.
We're gonna go read the from a file
descriptor off the file system to read
all that into our local
little buffer variable.
And then we're just gonna turn around and
immediately call write,
passing the socket file descriptor to just
send those bytes right from over from this
file descriptor to that file descriptor.
And unfortunately, we have this like,
sort of annoying thing, of like,
first we have to, like,
read them into our buffer.
And not only is that annoying,
because it means we have to, like,
do this extra step,
of like, reading it in, and
we got to figure out the size
of the buffer and all that.
That's kind of annoying, but
also separately, and like,
in dealing with the memory
implications of that, and like,
considering we want to use malloc are
going to use chunked reads and yada yada.
But also it's just less
efficient in general,
if you're able to sort of let
the operating system hang out and,
like, do its own thing,
rather than, like, jumping back and
forth between OS functions and what's
called user space functions, where, like.
The functions in our program, it's better
to let the operating system do more stuff.
So sendfile is this very convenient
function that essentially lets us say,
I'm gonna give you two file
descriptors and a number of bytes.
I'm just like, hey, just take
this many bytes from that one and
send them over there,
which is exactly what we want to do here.
And that allows us to cut out
that intermediary of the reading
it into the buffer and then turning
around and immediately writing.
If I had to guess, I would guess that
this, using sendfile right here,
I didn't actually benchmark this.
But I would guess that this is
a significant chunk of the explanation for
why this thing is outperforming
the rust and other ones.
Also, they're probably doing a lot of
other [LAUGH] general overhead kind of
stuff, but this one,
if I had to guess would?
I would guess that this one's maybe
the most significant thing to avoid this,
like handoff work.
So basically, source file takes a source
file descriptor, a destination file
descriptor, and then a number of bytes,
and it just says, cool operating system,
you're gonna take this many bytes from
the source file descriptor, namely.
In this case,
our file that we've opened, and
then send them right over to the socket
for the file descriptor as a destination.
Okay, now here's where things
get a little bit tricky.
So here is the type of sendfile.
So it's like, you have the out file
descriptor, so that's the one that we're
writing to in file descriptor,
one that we're reading from.
This is sort of optional offset.
If you want to say, like,
I don't want to read from like,
the very start of this file descriptor,
maybe I want to, like, start,
500 bytes in for some reason, and
then finally the count of the bytes.
Here is another way you
can have a sendfile work.
This one returns an int
instead of a size_t.
It takes a file descriptor instead
of a second file descriptor.
It takes an int called s, and
we'll talk about that in a sec.
It does take the offset,
but it's over here, and
it takes like a length instead of like.
Being a size t, it's an off t address.
And then we have this sf-hdtr,
which is a sure, and
then we have some flags, so
like, what's the deal with this?
Why are we talking about this thing?
Unfortunately, this is what send file is
on Linux, and this is what it is on Mac.
They have the same name and
they do the same job, but
they have totally different types,
totally different APIs.
Now, fortunately, we have been so
far pretty insulated from this.
But here we have encountered
our first example, and
there are other ones in there where,
although,
yes, C at a language level is going
to compile to the same stuff.
The libraries are not always identical
when you go to different operating systems
or different operating system flavors.
So here's the Linux manual page for
sendfile.
You notice that like the pound
include here is sys/stenfile.h.
This doesn't even exist on Mac OS.
And we see that this has the, I would say,
nicer of the two APIs for sure,
type that we saw earlier.
This is the manual page for that on Linux.
And then here we have, this is the
actually the BSD version, because Mac OS
is built on top of BSD, which is a
different flavor of Unix from Linux there.
So, like different parts of the Unix tree,
Linux and BSD.
And here we have three includes
[LAUGH] to get their sendfile,
none of which are sendfile.h.
[COUGH] and basically, at the end of
the day, you look at these and you think,
like, hey,
what happened to portable assembly?
Well, you may recall back
when I introduced that term,
I did mention there's a little bit
of a caveat that oftentimes, and so
far up to this point,
we have been able to dodge this.
Like, none of the APIs that we've been
using have happened to have been different
on different operating systems,
but they can be.
And this is a case where
they target totally are.
[COUGH] so the next question is,
okay, well,
wait a minute, so I get it that
these are two different things.
Does this mean I have to have
two separate code bases now,
like just because I want to use sendfile,
because it's obviously the best tool for
the job of what we want to use.
And now I need to, like, fork my code
base and have one that's for Linux and
one that's for Mac OS, and
they're totally identical.
Except for this one part.
Fortunately, no we can do something
better than this using target-specific
preprocessor macros.
So I mentioned that earlier
that on the Linux version only,
we need to include a sys/sendfile.h.
Here's how we can do that.
Basically, one of the other preprocessor
directors we can have is ifdef.
And what this means is basically if,
at some point.
And anybody who we have imported has
done a pound define of __linux__.
And we don't even care what it was defined
as we're just like, did anyone define that
in any was there a pound define
at a point, at any point of this?
If so, then I want to just process this
preprocessor directive immediately,
which is just gonna copy
paste all of that in there.
And then here is the pound end,
if that goes with the ifdef.
Essentially, what this is doing is saying,
yeah,
I'm going to trust that
the C compiler knows.
Are we building for Linux or
building this binary for Mac OS?
And it's going to define,
like the pound define at the very
beginning for me, __linux.
If it's Linux,
then we'll see the Apple one in a sec.
And therefore I can now write in
the middle of my C code, just like, hey,
if we're building for Linux, there's just
different source code here, magically.
And if we're building for Mac OS,
there's other different source code here.
So to go through the the actual like,
sendfile version of this.
Like down below after we've
done the include there.
Basically, we say elif Linux, we have
Selenix specific code, and then elif,
which is the pre-processor directive for
else if,
you can already kind of
see why Zig was like.
We're just gonna let you run
the language at compile time.
We're not gonna have if,def, and
elif, and endif, and define.
And it's like no, we'll just, you just
do the language at comp time is fine.
And also, for some reason, Linux is like
lowercase, but then Apple is uppercase.
I'm not exactly sure
what's going on there.
And then finally, we have an else.
And then basically, you can also have
a pound error, [LAUGH] which is basically,
well, what happens if
neither of these are defined?
Well, I would rather just get
a build time error saying like,
hey, you're trying to build for
something that doesn't have sendfile, and
like we kind of rely on that,
so error out.
Or of course, this could be, if we didn't
want to do this error, we could just say
like, well, this is the part where
rather than using send file at all.
We're just going to fall back on the thing
that we've already used where we like read
it into a buffer and
then like write it from the buffer out.
So be a little less efficient, but
at least it'll still work if we're
targeting something other than Linux or
OS, such as windows.
Also worth noting that I mentioned at the
very beginning of this course that we're
not doing Windows-specific APIs here,
in large part because,
they have all these differences.
So if you can imagine this difference in
sendfile, this would have also existed for
basically everything else we've seen here.
So like open, write, read,
all of those have different names and
different APIs and Windows, but
the structure of the code would be about
the same if we wanted to support Windows.
Basically, what we would have is
just a whole bunch more of these.
So we would have like,
we're gonna do a read, okay,
if def windows do it the windows way.
Otherwise do it, this way.
If we wanna do it open, okay, ifdef
windows do it this way, otherwise, that.
You can imagine that would've made the
course really kind of clunky to go through
if we did that.
But it's actually not that wild in terms
of like how much of an effect it would
have on your program other than sort
of littering these if-ifs everywhere.
This of course could lead you to say,
what I'm gonna do?
I'm just gonna like make a generic
version of open that works on Linux and
Mac OS, and Windows, and
just like write my functions so
I can sort of isolate these
preprocessor macros over there.
And then at that point, you might say,
maybe I'll make a cross-platform standard
library and make a library
that people can just import.
So they don't have to do that themselves,
etc.
So this is where you get sort of like
people who want to use more than just
the C standard library, making things
cross-platform is a common reason to want
to read for something like that.
Okay, so
as we're gonna do in the exercise,
this is the part where we're like,
cool, I'm gonna call sendfile,
passing like Linux specific arguments or
macOS-specific arguments.
And then we can just
have things just work.
So to summarize everything
we talked about,
we started off talking about
bit shifts and switches.
Basically using the combination of those,
plus this other kind of wild hack
that we're doing to convert things into
integers that are clearly strings.
We talked about preprocessor macros as
a way to improve the ergonomics of that.
So that rather than having to, like,
write out this hard-coded like,
billion plus number, we could actually
just write some code that at least has
the contents of the string
that we care about.
And yet be able to use it in a switch and
all that.
And then finally, we talked about how
to access platform specific code,
because with send file.
We actually need to be able to do
something completely different
when it comes to Linux versus Mac OS,
just because the APIs are so different.